Total pages: 12

--- PAGE 1 ---
704 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
Community Hiding by Link Perturbation
in Social Networks
Xianyu Chen , Zhongyuan Jiang ,H u iL i ,J i a n f e n gM a , and Philip S. Yu, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract — Complex social network is a kind of relationship
system composed of many nodes according to social relations.Community detection helps scholars to understand this networktopology and ﬁnd out meaningful communities. Many scholarsare therefore actively exploring new community detection algo-rithms. However, it brings privacy issues such as the disclosureof personal or group information of community members andgoes against an individual or group desire to be hidden. Hence,how to hide a target community in a network to resist thecommunity detection algorithms becomes critical. Given this,this article studies the community hiding problem, which hasnot been extensively focused so far and aims to properly hidea target community into other communities by perturbing abudget limited number of social links. First, we formalize thecommunity hiding problem and design a gain function. Second,we prove the feasibility of link perturbation operations andpropose an efﬁcient algorithm to solve the community hidingproblem. Finally, we conduct extensive experiments on varietiesof real small- and large-scale social networks and compareour method with other community deception algorithms. Theexperimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm ismore efﬁcient than previously proposed algorithms.
Index Terms — Community deception, community detection,
community hiding, community security, link perturbation.
I. I NTRODUCTION
COMPLEX networks are abstracted from a large number
of complex systems that exist in reality. The overall func-
tion of a network is reﬂected in the interaction between each
pair of nodes in the network. The community structure is itskey structural feature and the c ommunities correspond to the
functional modules of the system. Extracting these modules of
the network helps us deeply explore the internal building rules
of complex networks. Therefore, researchers are more inclined
to study how to efﬁciently discover the communities’ structureof complex networks and pay a lot of attention to discover
potential clustering information in social networks at the cost
of the disclosure of sensitive community information. With the
Manuscript received September 16, 2020; revised December 28, 2020;
accepted January 19, 2021. Date of publication February 8, 2021; date of
current version May 28, 2021. This work was supported in part by the
Natural Science Basis Research Plan in Shaanxi Province of China underGrant 2020JM-203, in part by the Fundament al Research Funds for the Central
Universities of China under Grant JB 211501, in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under G rant 61502375, and in part by the NSF
under Grant III-1763325, III-1909323, and SaTC-1930941. (Corresponding
author: Zhongyuan Jiang.)
Xianyu Chen, Zhongyuan Jiang, Hui Li, and Jianfeng Ma are
with the School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University, Xi’an710071, China (e-mail: xychen_3@stu.xidian.edu.cn; zyjiang@xidian.edu.cn;
hli@xidian.edu.cn; jfma@mail.xidian.edu.cn).
Philip S. Yu is with the Department of Computer Science, University of
Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60607 USA (e-mail: psyu@uic.edu).
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TCSS.2021.3054115rise of awareness of personal privacy protection, we now focus
on the protection of community privacy in social networks
rather than exploring the potential community information in
the networks. In real life, as each of us cannot exist alone
without other people or other things, the result is that we arein many social networks with speciﬁc meanings, such as the
patient network, mail network, cooperation network, and social
network. Take a classic example to illustrate the importanceof community hiding: police o fﬁcers need to collect crime
evidence in a social network as undercover police ofﬁcers,
and then, they must meet the following two requirements.
First, the undercover police ofﬁcers need to conduct normal
social activities as normal social users, so as not to causecriminals to perceive them an d destroy evidence or escape.
Second, the communication among the police ofﬁcers is usu-
ally frequent and it will form a police-community structure insocial networks. However, this kind of community structure is
not conducive to hiding the identity of the undercover police
ofﬁcers because of the high vigilance of criminals. Therefore,
given the nature of the undercover police ofﬁcers, we must
ﬁnd a way to destroy the commun ity structure and successfully
hide the police-community stru cture. Thus, it can be seen that
how to hide one or more target communities in a network to
evade social network analysis tools is extremely signiﬁcant.This article aims to solve the single target community privacy
disclosure issue and propose an efﬁcient community hiding
method.
What are the ideal goals for the hidden results of a commu-
nity hiding method? Reference [1] gives three detailed idealgoals to measure community security. Given a social network
Gand a target community C , good hiding of community C
inGhas the following three manifestations.
1)Reachability Preservation: The members of Cshould be
in the same connected com ponent to reachable from one
another to keep the information exchange, that is, link
perturbation updates cannot break the target community
Cconnectivity.
2)Community Spread: The members of Care supposed
to be spread over other communities in Gas much as
possible.
3)Community Hiding: The members of Cshould be dis-
tributed in the largest communities.
These goals are also the guiding ideology for our work: on
the basis of not destroying the connected component of the
target community , in this work, we design a more efﬁcient link
perturbation mechanism to hide a speciﬁc target community
into as many as possible other communities of a network.
2329-924X © 2021 I EEE. Personal u se is perm itted, but republication/redistri bution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- PAGE 2 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 705
This article is dedicated to solve the community hiding
problem, which has not been extensively focused so far and
propose a new and efﬁcient algorithm to achieve the three
goals above. We focus on hiding a target community C into
other communities by perturb ing a budget limited number of
social links. To perturb the most suitable links, we formalize
the community hiding problem and design a gain function toguide perturbation operations. Also, we prove the feasibility
and operability of the method. Finally, we prove the effective-
ness of our community hiding algorithm through extensive
experiments.
To solve the community hiding problem, our work makes
the following contributions.
A. Propose an Approach to Evaluating the Strength of
Dispersion Within a Community
An optional and effective way to prevent a node set
from being detected into a community is to weaken the
connections between nodes in the set. In this way, howto evaluate the strength of connections between each pair
of nodes in such a node set? Here, we introduce an eval-
uation scheme to evaluate the strength of dispersion and
the closeness of a community. In terms of community
hiding algorithm, what we need to consider is the degreeof dispersion of a community rather than the closeness of a
community. Therefore, we introduce a community dispersion
concept to evaluate the strength of dispersion within a com-munity which is introduced in Sections III and IV .
B. Devise an Instantiation of the General Gain Function
To demonstrate the different effects of different link per-
turbation updates and guide the community hiding algorithm
to carry out the most appropriate link perturbation operation,we formulate the community hiding problem and devise a new
instantiation of the gain function. The detailed design of this
gain function will be described i n the subsequent sections.
C. Eliminate the Negative Effects of [1] in Two Particular
Cases
Fionda and Pirro [1] proposed a community deception algo-
rithm Dsand it treats link additions and deletions separately.
Link additions include inter -C(intercommunity) and intra -C
(intracommunity) link additions, and link deletions include
inter -Cand intra -Clink deletions. Although the authors
prove the feasibility of these f our conditions on community
deception, they cannot avoid the negative effects in case
intra -Clink additions and case inter -Clink deletions on
community deception. To solve the problem, we propose amore effective solution. First, we improve the Dsalgorithm
and form a new gain formula. Second, we prove the hidden
impact of the above four conditions on community hiding
and successfully prove the feasibility of operation intra -C
link additions and inter -Clink deletions. Hence, the most
important and greatest contribution of this article is that our
method completely excludes the adverse effects of the above
two particular cases.D. Extensive Experiments
To compare our method with previous methods and show
the effectiveness of our community hiding methods, we con-
duct a lot of comprehensive experiments in a set of real social
networks, including both small- and large-scale networks. For
different social networks with different sizes, we will study indetail the inﬂuence of different community hiding methods on
the community structure.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section II
reviews the related research on community detection algo-
rithms and community deception algorithms on complex social
networks. Section III shows the preliminaries and problem for-
mulation. We demonstrate the analysis and community hiding
algorithm in Section IV. Section V gives the experimentalevaluation. Finally, we summarize this article and describe the
potential future work in Section VI.
II. R
ELATED WORK
A. Community Detection Algorithms
Community detection algorithms are mature and a large
number of community detection algorithms have been pro-posed since the community detection problem brought up. It is
mainly divided into the following two categories: nonoverlap-
ping and overlapping community detection. Here, we mainlygive a brief introduction of the above two strategies separately
in the following.
First of all, nonoverlapping community structure means
that each node in network can belong to only one com-
munity, and there is no intersection between the community
and the community. The classical algorithms of nonoverlap-
ping detection methods include modularity optimization algo-
rithms [2]–[4], afﬁnity propagation algorithms [5], spectrumanalysis algorithms [6], [7], random walk algorithms [8], [9],
label propagation algorithms [10]–[12], and seed spread
algorithms [13]–[15]. Among them, the modularity optimiza-tion algorithm is popular, which is ﬁrst presented by Newman
and Girvan [3], and modularity is a measure of the quality of
the community division.
Overlapping community struct ures are closer to real-world
network topologies. There are also some mature overlappingcommunity detection methods. Palla et al . studied a cluster
percolation method that is low efﬁciency in spare networks.
Zhang et al. [17] made a detection survey based on multilabel
propagation. Besides, the neighborhood-inﬂated seed expan-
sion algorithm (NISE) is proposed by Whang et al . [18] to
detect the overlapping comm unities. Furthermore, Ronhovde
and Nussinov [19] proposed a community detection method
that is based on the minimization of the Hamiltonian of Pottsmodel and so on.
B. Community Hiding and Community Antidetection
Algorithms
Due to the gradual improvement of people’s awareness
of privacy protection, some researchers started focusing on
the community security pr oblems in recent years. Algo-
rithms include k-structural diversity algorithm [20]; k-degree
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
706 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITHRELATED WORK
anonymity algorithm [21], k-isomorphism algorithm [22], and
Walk2Privacy algorithm [23]. Besides, Chen et al. [24] pro-
posed a genetic algorithm (GA) to s earch effective perturbation
attack schemes for leading privacy protection. In terms of
community hiding, Nagaraja [25] ﬁrst proposed the idea of
hiding a community to resist community detection algorithm
and the studies have shown that perturbing some links caneffectively hide a community. However, Nagaraja only focused
on link additions toward nodes with high centrality values
(e.g., degree centrality). Waniek et al. [26] proposed a heuristic
algorithm by disconnecting internally and connecting exter-
nally (DICE) for hiding comm unities. Fionda and Pirro [1]
proposed the concept of comm unity deception to deal with
community detection problem. S afeness-based deception algo-
rithm and modularity-based d eception algorithm were mainly
tested through amounts of experiments.
Table I shows the comparisons between our approach and
related studies. Our approach does not adopt the modularitymethod, but we improve Fionda’s algorithm and design a new
gain function expression to form a new community hiding
algorithm called Hsthat is based on a new safeness deﬁnition
(i.e., safeness-based community hiding algorithm). For the new
safeness deﬁnition, we give out the detailed theoretical proofs
and formula demonstration in the following sections.
III. P
RELIMINARIES AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
We ﬁrst give preliminary deﬁn itions and related notations.
Deﬁnition 1: An undirected social network is denoted by
G=(V,E),w h e r e Vis the node set and Eis the link set. |V|
and|E|represent the number of nodes and links in network G,
respectively.
Deﬁnition 2: A set of communities discovered by a spe-
ciﬁc community detection algorithm ADis denoted by ¯C=
{C1,C2,..., Ck},w h e r e Ci⊆V,C1⋃...⋃Ck=Vand
Ci∩Cj=∅ ,f o ra l l i,j∈{1,..., k}and i=j.G i v e n
a community ˜C⊆V,a n intra -˜Clink (or intracommunity
link) has the form (u,v):{u,v}⊆ ˜C, while inter -˜Clink (or
intercommunity link) has the form (u,v):u∈˜C,v /∈˜C.
Deﬁnition 3: The degree of the dispersion of a community
˜Cis denoted by ρ(˜C)=∑
u∑
vsp(u,v),w h e r e u,v∈˜C
and u=v,a n d sp(u,v)represents the length of the shortest
path between nodes uandv. In our work, there must be a
shortest path between any two nodes within community ˜C.
Because the target community we study must satisfy the basic
condition of reachability preservation , the members of the
target community belong to the same connected graph. On this
condition, nodes within a target community can communicate
to each other via the one or more link paths within community.A. Problem Formulation
Community detection problem usually refers to detecting
the closely connected parts of the network and these parts
are called communities, that is , the connections within the
communities are dense and the connections between commu-nities are sparse. However, community hiding is the opposite
of community detection and we must break the above nature
of the community to resist community detection tools.
Although community detection is a problem that is easy
to understand and study, sc holars have done very little in
terms of technology that allows the target community C to
be hidden into multiple other communities. The community
hiding problem can be described as: given a social network G
and the community divisions ¯Ccorresponding to a community
detection algorithm A
D, we randomly select a community
from ¯Cas the target community C a n di ti sm o r ei nl i n e
with the practical signiﬁcance of community hiding. The goal
is to ﬁnd a community hiding algorithm to hide the members
of community Cinto other communities of the network Gby
perturbing a fraction of the social links, ﬁnally generating an
updated network G. After community hiding, algorithm AD
generates a new community structure on network Gand it is
within this new community structure that the target community
hiding is achieved.
This article proposes a community hiding algorithm that
is based on link perturbation and designs a gain function to
guide us to hide the target community into other communities
by perturbing a budget ( β) limited number of social links.
Hence, the community hiding problem is equivalent to dealingthe optimization gain function( φ) problem in (1) (Section IV
gives the speciﬁc deﬁnition of the gain function), where E(C)
[resp., ˜E(C)] represents the set of intra -C(resp., inter -C)
links, E
+(resp., E−) represents a set of link additions (resp.,
deletions), and |E+|+| E−|≤β.E(C)[resp., ˜E(C)]i st h e
set of intra -C(resp., inter -C) links after link perturbation
updates. The function φformalizes the community hiding
problem and the budget βcontrols the number of link updates.
Hence, our work is just to pick the βchanges that maximize φ
arg max
{E(C),˜E(C)}{φ(C,E(C),˜E(C),β, E(C),˜E(C))}
where
E(C)∪˜E(C)=(E(C)∪˜E(C)∪E+)\E−
and
|E+|+| E−|≤β. (1)
Fig. 1 shows the schematic of community hiding problem.
Fig. 1(a) shows the input (a social network G) of community
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 4 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 707
Fig. 1. (a) is the input (a social network G) of community hiding module. (b) is the community structure partition of Gunder a community detection
algorithm and community C2is regarded as the target community. (c) is the step of the co mmunity hiding. The red dotted link represents a link deletion
operation, and the green link represents a link addition operation. The deleted links are deﬁned as E−and the added links are deﬁned as E+. (d) is the output
network ( G) of target community hiding deception. (e) means that the community det ection algorithm can’t identify the community structure of the original
target community members in updated network G.
TABLE II
ADOPTED SYMBOLS
hiding module. Fig. 1(b) shows the community structure
partition of Gunder a community detection algorithm and
community C2is regarded as the target community .F i g .1 ( c )
shows the steps of the community hiding. The red dotted
link represents a link deletion operation, and the green link
represents a link addition operation. The delete links aredeﬁned as E
−and the added links are deﬁned as E+.F i g .1 ( d )
shows the output network ( G)o f target community hiding
deception. Fig. 1(e) means that t he community detection algo-
rithm cannot identify the community structure of the original
target community members in G. Table II describes all the
symbols used in this article.
IV . A NALYSIS AND COMMUNITY HIDING ALGORITHM
Given a target community C in a social network G,h o w
can we hide the community in the whole network? We are
committed to two operations: one is to make Cdispersive by
deleting the links in Cand one is to increase the connection
between the members of community Cand the nodes outside
community C. To illustrate the inﬂuence of the above two
operations on community hiding, we analyze it from the
aspects of intra -Cand inter -C, respectively.
A .C o n c e p to fi n t r a - C
First, we have to establish a consistent view: the best
situation is that there are as few intra -Clinks as possible.
Fig. 2. When a network has 6 nodes and 5 links, (a) is a network structure
where ρ=70; (b) is a network structure where ρ=64; (c) is a network
structure where ρ=62; (d) is a network structure where ρ=58; (e) is a
network structure where ρ=56; (f) is a network structure where ρ=50.
Thus, we can delete the links within Con the premise of
not destroying the connected component. We believe that
disrupting community connectivity will damage informationinteraction between commun ity members and it may cause
irreparable damage to C. Here, the number of nodes in C
is denoted by n=|C|and the number of links in Cis
denoted by mat ﬁrst, so we have m≥n−1. In terms of
intra -C, we are committed to delete the links in Cto make
the number of links in Cclose to n−1, where the ideal
situation is equal to n−1. Its purpose is to make the contact
within the target community as small as possible to fully
resist the community detection tools. At this time, it meets
thereachability preservation goal requirement. In our work,
the degree of dispersion of a community Cis deﬁned as ρ(C).
In order to hide the community C,ρ(C)must increase.
Taking Fig. 2 as an example, a target community C , only
considering intra -Cnow, has n=6 nodes and only one
connected component. The number of links in Cis greater
than or equal to n−1=5. We delete some links in Cand
assume that it is achievable that the number of links in Ccan
be reduced to 5, and then, we can obtain one of the situations
in Fig. 2 (due to the page requirements, only one graph is listedfor each of different ρ).ρof community in Fig. 2(a)–(f) is
different. ρ(C)of Fig. 2(a) equals 70 that is the maximum,
whereas Fig. 2(f) equals 50 that is the minimum, that is,
the degree of dispersion of Fig. 2(a) is the best, while Fig. 2(f)
is the worst for community hiding. The former is conducive to
community hiding and the latter is conducive to community
mining. Hence, the only thing we need to do is to increase
ρ(C)ofintra -Cby link perturbation updates.
In this article, we normalize ρ(C)into another indicator
intra_Community_Safen e s s ,w h i c hi sd e ﬁ n e da s ψ(C)=
(ρ(C)−ρ(C)min)/(ρ( C)max−ρ(C)min),w h e r e ρ(C)min=
2(n−1)2[when one node is the center and the rest of the
nodes are all connected to the center node, such as Fig. 2(f)]andρ(C)
max=∑n
k=1(∑n−k
i=1i+∑k−1
j=0j)[when all nodes
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 5 ---
708 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
in the community are on a line, such as Fig. 2(a)]. The
calculation formula of ψ(C)is shown by (2). We assume
thatρ(C)has its maximum value when all nodes in Care
located on a line as shown in Fig. 2(a); at this moment,ψ(C)=1. Similarly, ψ(C)=0w h e n ρ(C)=ρ(C)
min. Here,
we improve the intra_Community_Safeness of [1], which
proved the infeasibility of intra -Clink additions and inter -C
link deletions
ψ(C)=ρ(C)−2(n−1)2
∑n
k=1(∑n−k
i=1i+∑k−1
j=0j)
−2(n−1)2. (2)
B. Concept of inter-C
Next, we analyze the connection between one member of
atarget community C and one external member ( inter -C)
of other communities. To hide the members of Cinto other
communities as much as possible, it is necessary to increase
contact with the outside nodes; namely, we can add links
between nodes in Cand nodes outside C.I nt h i sw a y ,
the members of Cwill be dispersed into other communities
as much as possible and it meets community spread goal
requirement. Then, how to evaluate the strength of the contact?
Here, following the deﬁnition of [1], (3) represents thedeﬁnition, where u∈C, and we denote E(u,C)[resp.,
˜E(u,C)] as the set of intracommunity ( resp., intercommunity)
links for node u∈C
ϕ(C)=∑
u∈C|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u). (3)
Equation (3) shows the ratio of u’s links that point outside
Cto its degree and indicates an account on how uis hidden
inside the network about its degree. In order to increase ϕ(C),
ushould diversify its connections, that is, obtaining more
connections with nodes outside of Cby adding new links.
Under the premise of the reachability preservation and
community spread , we can disperse all members of a target
community into as many as other communities possible. In the
end, we can achieve the purpose of community hiding .
C. Community Safeness
Taking intra -Cand inter -Cinto account from the above
discussion, we advocate the safeness of community consisting
of both factors of intra -Cand inter -C. Hence, we give a new
deﬁnition referred to as community safeness , which is deﬁned
by the following equation :
σ(C)=1
2ψ(C)+1
2ϕ(C). (4)
For community hiding problem, Hsdesigns a safeness gain
(C)=σ(C)−σ(C),w h e r e Cis the community after
applying one or more link perturbation updates. Therefore,
the greedy Hsalgorithm selects the most appropriate link
update that gives the highest (C)at each step.
Now, we discuss the effect of link updates on community
safeness and link additions and deletions separately.1) Link Additions: First, we analyze the inter -Clink addi-
tions. The target community C has community safeness σ(C).
Let(C)=σ(C)−σ(C)be the safeness gain.
Theorem 1: For any inter -Clink addition (u,w) s.t.u∈C
andw/∈Cgiving G=(V,E∪(u,w)) ,w eh a v et h a t :
1)(C)≥0 always holds and 2) the maximum increase
in safeness happens for the node u∈arg min {((|˜E(u,C)|)/
(deg(u)))}.
Proof: Checking if (C)=σ(C)−σ(C)≥0 amounts
at checking whether
(C)=σ(C)−σ(C)
=1
2(ψ(C)−ψ(C))+1
2|˜E(u,C)|+1
deg(u)+1−1
2|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)
≥0. (5)
Sinceψ(C)=ψ(C)only considers inter -Clink additions,
(C)can be written as
(C)=1
2|˜E(u,C)|+1
deg(u)+1−1
2|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)
=1
2deg(u)−|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)(deg(u)+1). (6)
Condition 1) (i.e., (C)≥0) holds since deg (u)≥
|˜E(u,C)|. Moreover, condition 2) means that the maximum
increase happens. □
Theorem 2: Anintra -Clink addition (u,w) s.t.{u,w}⊂ C
giving an updated network G=(V,E∪{(u,w)})always
gives(C)<0.
Proof: There is a truth that ψ(C)≤ψ(C)when adding
anintra -Clink, so we note that the following condition
always holds :
(C)=σ(C)−σ(C)=1
2(ψ(C)−ψ(C))
+1
2(|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)+1−|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u))
+1
2(|˜E(w,C)|
deg(w)+1−|˜E(w,C)|
deg(w))
<0. (7)
□
2) Link Deletions: We now pay attention to link deletions
and give our theories and proofs.
Theorem 3: Aninter -Clink deletion (u,w):u∈C,w/∈C
giving G=(V,E\{(u,w)})always gives (C)≤0.
Proof: To prove (C)=σ(C)−σ(C)≥0 amounts at
checking whether
1
2(ψ(C)−ψ(C))+1
2|˜E(u,C)|−1
deg(u)−1−1
2|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)≥0.
(8)
Similar to Theorem 1, an inter -Clink deletion has no effect
on the shortest path between the inner node pairs of C,t h a t
is,ψ(C)=ψ(C). Therefore, (8) clearly never holds since
deg(u)≥|˜E(u,C)|. □
Theorem 4: Anintra -Clink deletion (u,w):{u,w}⊆ C
always gives (C)>0.
Proof: First of all, we must set a premise. The nodes
uandwinCstill belong to the same connected component
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 6 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 709
after the deletion of the link (u,w) because we cannot destroy
the connectivity of the target community . Then, similar to
Theorem 2, ψ(C)≥ψ(C)when deleting an intra -Clink.
Therefore, we prove that the following condition always holds :
(C)=σ(C)−σ(C)=1
2(ψ(C)−ψ(C))
+1
2(|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)−1−|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u))
+1
2(|˜E(w,C)|
deg(w)−1−|˜E(w,C)|
deg(w))
>0. (9)
□
Algorithm 1 Hs—Community Hiding via Safeness
Input: G=(V,E),C,β
Output: G
1:do
2: np=getNodeMinimumAddRatio (C)/*Theorem 1*/
3: nt=f ind RandomExternalNode (np,C,G)
4:(C)add←getAdditionGain (np,nt,C)
5:(nk,nl)=g e tBe stD e lExc lBridg e s (C)/*Theorem 4*/
6:(C)del←get DeletionGain (nk,nl,C)
7: if(C)add≥(C)deland(C)add>0then
8: G←(V,E∪{(np,nt)})
9: else if (C)del>0then
10: G←(V,E\{(nk,nl)})
11:β=β−1,G=G
12:while β> 0a n d ((C)add>0o r(C)del>0)
In summary, the community hiding algorithm Hsis outlined
in Algorithm 1 according to the above analysis [1]. In the
experiment, our goal is to increase σ(C). The algorithm
only considers inter -Clink additions in terms of additions
according to Theorem 1 because it always brings a safeness
gain. According to Theorem 2, Algorithm 1 does not considertheintra -Clink additions because (C)is always less than
0. Similarly, for link deletions, under the premise of keep-
ing the community connected, the algorithm only considers
intra -Clink deletions according to Theorem 4 and discards
theinter -Clink deletions according to Theorem 3. Besides,
this algorithm only requires intra -Cand inter -Clinks.
The function getNodeMinimumAddRatio (line 2) com-
putes, for every single node u∈C, the ratio of u’s links
that point outside Cto its degree and then select the node
n
pcorresponding to the minimum fraction. The function
f ind RandomExternalNode (line 3) randomly ﬁnds a node
nt(not in community C) such that the link (np,nt)does not
exist. The function getAdditionGain (line 4) computes the
link addition gain according to lines 2 and 3. The function
g e tBe stD e lExc lBridg e s (line 5) consists of two steps: one
step is that it excludes the social links that could destroy the
connectivity of Con condition that they are deleted and the
other step is that it calculates (C)according to Theorem 4 for
each remaining link. The function get DeletionGain (line
6) computes the link deletion gai n according to line 5. Finally,
Hschooses the most suitable link update and conducts the
update on network (lines 7–11). For each loop operation,we can obtain the best node for link addition and the best
link for deletion by checking all the nodes and links in C,
so the time complexity of Algorithm 1 is O(β(n+m)).
V. E XPERIMENTAL AND EXPERIMENTAL EVA L UAT I O N
A. Baselines
To illustrate the effectiveness and feasibility of our
method, in this article, we introduce two algorithms as base-lines: Ds(Safeness-based community deception) and Dm
(Modularity-based community d eception) algorithms, and both
of them are deﬁned in [1].
Baseline 1 (Ds): Fionda and Pirro [1] proposed the Ds
algorithm. The difference between Dsand Hsis that Hs
considers the total shortest path for each pair of nodes in target
community C , whereas Dsconsiders whether one node in C
can reach another node in Conly with the help of nodes in C.
First, Dsintroduces the concept of node safeness σ(u,C).T h e
node safeness σ(u,C)ofuinGis shown as follows :
σ(u,C)=1
2⏐⏐Vu
C⏐⏐−|E(u,C)|
|C|−1+1
2|˜E(u,C)|
deg(u)(10)
where Vu
C⊆Cis the set of nodes reachable from upassing
only via nodes in C.
Furthermore, the community safeness σ(C)is deﬁned as
follows :
σ(C)=∑
u∈Cσ(u,C)/|C|. (11)
For the general deception formulation, Dsproposes a safe-
ness gain ξC=σ(C)−σ(C)and it chooses the link update
that gives the highest ξCat each step through the greedy
algorithm (community safeness). The budget is also deﬁned
asβ.Dsalgorithm runs in time O(β(n+m)).
According to (11), Fionda and Pirro [1] proved the effect of
link updates (link additions and link deletions) on community
safeness; inter -Clink addition has a positive inﬂuence on
community hiding, whereas inter -Clink deletion has a nega-
tive effect on community hiding. However, the authors points
out that intra -Clink addition and intra -Clink deletion do
not always introduce a safeness gain. Both of these updates
have a negative impact on the community hiding under certain
circumstances. In the experiment, the authors do not considertheintra -Clink addition because they assume that it is a
decision of C’s members to keep the community disconnected
ifCis disconnected from the beginning. Besides, Fionda and
Pirro [1] considered the intra -Clink deletion under certain
conditions. Obviously, different from [1], our method can
prove exactly which updates have a positive or negative impact
on community hiding so that th ere is no need to add artiﬁcial
assumptions.
Baseline 2 (Dm): Except the Dsalgorithm, Fionda and
Pirro [1] also gave the modular ity-based decep tion algorithm
Dm. It is denoted by deg (v)the degree of v∈V. The degree
of a community C
iis denoted by: deg (Ci)=∑
v∈Cideg(v).
The modularity of the partition o f a network into community
¯C={C1,C2,..., Ck}is given by the following equation :
MG(¯C)=η
m−δ
4m2(12)
where η=∑
Ci∈¯C|E(Ci)|andδ=∑
Ci∈¯Cdeg(Ci)2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 7 ---
710 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
TABLE III
USED SOCIAL NETWORKS IN THISWORK
For community hiding, an intuitive strategy would be to
leverage the modularity loss ML =MG(¯C)−MG(¯C),w h e r e
Gis the network after applying link perturbation. The goal
ofDm is to ﬁnd the set of βlink updates where ML is
maximized. Dm algorithm runs in time O(|E|+| ¯C|2).
B. Community Detection Algorithms
In the ﬁeld of community detection algorithms, in this
article, we consider ﬁve mature and available detection
algorithms: Label Propagation algorithm [27], InfoMap algo-
rithm [28], [29], MultiLevel algorithm [30], SpinGlass algo-
rithm [31], [32], and Leading Eigenvectors algorithm [33].
They are all available in the Python version of the igraphlibrary.
1
C. Data Sets
The data sets used in this work are many real social net-
works, which are free for scientiﬁc use and can be downloadedonline
2,3,,4and the original authors have already made the
data sets freely available. It includes both small-scale ( kar,
dol,f ootb ,a n d polb ) and large-scale ( net,f aceb ,pow,erd,
and ast) social networks. Table III gives a description of the
all used social networks for experiments.
D. Evaluation Metric
Here, we use the deception score H to describe the quality
of our algorithm. Fionda and Pirro [1] deﬁned the Hscore in
detail. For a certain community detection algorithm, we can
get a community structure ¯C={C1,C2,... Ck}of a certain
network G.F i r s t ,t h e recall of a detection algorithm ADwith
respect to a target community C is deﬁned as follows :
R(Ci,C)=#Csmembers in Cifound by AD
|C|
∀Ci∈¯C.(13)
Then, the precision is deﬁned as follows :
P(Ci,C)=#Csmembers in Cifound by AD
|Ci|
∀Ci∩C=∅ .(14)
1https://igraph.org/python/doc/igraph.Graph-class.html
2http://www-personal.umich.edu/ ∼mejn/netdata/
3http://snap.stanford.edu/data/index.html
4http://www.orgnet.com/According to (13) and (14), the community deception score
His deﬁned as
H(C,¯C)=(
1−|S(C)−1|
|C|−1)
×(
1
2(1−max
Ci∈¯C{R(Ci,C)})
+1
2(
1−∑
Ci⋂C=∅P(Ci,C)
|Ci∩C=∅ |))
(15)
where |S(C)|is the number of connected components in the
subgraph induced by Csmembers. Hranges from 0 to 1.
H=1 represents that the nodes in Care in a single connected
component and are hidden in the network in the best way.
H=0 represents that each node in Ccomes from different
components or C∈¯C.
E. Evaluation Algorithm
According to H, Fionda and Pirro [1] introduced a standard
benchmark algorithm to tes t deception algorithms and we
follow this evaluation algorithm. Similar to [1], we applya budget of changes βsuch that |E
+|+| E−|≤βto the
network G, and then, we obtain an update network Gafter
executing the community hiding algorithms ( Hs,Ds,a n d Dm).
Algorithm 2 Evaluating Community Hiding Algorithm
1:procedure EV ALUATEHIDINGALGOG( β,AD)
2: ¯C←AD(G)/*Communities before hiding*/
3: C←gettargetCommunity (¯C)
4: MG(¯C)←get Modularity (¯C,C)
5:σ(C)←getSaf eness (C,G)
6: H(C,¯C)←getHiding (C,G,¯C)
7: G←applyHiding (G,C,β,Hs|Ds|Dm)
8: ¯C←AD(G)/*Communities after hiding*/
9: MG(¯C)←get Modularity (¯C,G)
10:σ(C)←getSaf eness (C,G)
11: H(C,¯C)←getHiding (C,¯C,G)
Algorithm 2 starts with a community division ¯Cfound by
given community detection algorithm AD(line 1). In order
to better show the hidden effect, we select a fully discovered
community in ¯Cas the target community C (i.e., C∈¯C)
(line 2). Lines 4–6 compute the original values of modularity,
safeness, and Hscore. Then, we apply community hiding
algorithms ( Hs,Ds,a n d Dm), respectively, on target commu-
nity and obtain the updated network G(line 6). In this way,
a new community structure ¯Ccan be obtained for network
Gby algorithm AD(line 7) and compute the values of
modularity, safeness, and Hscore again to measure the impact
of the hiding strategies (lines 8 and 9).
F . Results Analysis
We run all community hiding methods on the given data sets
and the experiments are run on a server of 3.50-GHz CPU and
16.00-GB RAM.
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 8 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 711
Fig. 3. Evolution of deception score Has a function of the budget on many small-scale networks.
Fig. 3 shows a detailed view of the deception score when
considering Hs,Ds,a n d Dm, and budget βdepends on the
size of the selected target community C .I f n=|C|,t h e n β
are 1,2,3,..., when n<10 and βare 2,4,6,..., nwhen
n≥10.
First, Fig. 3 contains a total of 20 (ﬁve rows and four
columns) detailed result comparison subﬁgures for small-scalesocial networks, and each subﬁgure in Fig. 3 shows the
evolution of Hscores under the three community hiding
algorithms (i.e., Hs,Ds,a n d Dm) with different budgets.
As shown, the results of subﬁgures in each row from top to
bottom represents the impact of the ﬁve community detection
algorithms ( LPA,IMP,MLE ,SGL,a n d LEI)o nt h e Hscore
of the three community hiding algorithms, and each column
from left to right presents results for different social networks.On the whole, the Hsand Dsalgorithms perform better
than Dm algorithm, and the Hsalgorithm outperforms Ds
algorithm.
In detail, for small-scale social networks, Hsand Dsare
better than Dm. In Fig. 3, we note that the Hscore polyline
ofDm algorithm below the Hscore polyline of Hsand Ds
algorithms in over 90% of cases. Also, we observe a badsituation that
Dm algorithm may be useless for community
hiding ( H=0) once in a while. The reason for such
phenomenon is mainly due to these detection algorithms that
are not based on modularity optimization algorithm, which
generates that an updated network does not bring enough effect
on the function because of the low modularity. For Hsand Ds
algorithms, we can observe that the Hsalgorithm performs
better than the Dsalgorithm in most cases although there is
a special counterexample [as shown in Fig. 3(a3)] that Dsis
a bit better than Hsin case “ f ootb +LPA.” We can also
see that in some cases, the Hscore of Hsand Dsis very
near, such as these cases: “ f ootb +IMP,” “polb+IMP,”
“f ootb +MLE ,” and “ f ootb +SGL ”’ in Fig. (b3), (b4),
(c3), and (d3), respectively. The rest of the results show that
Hsis signiﬁcantly better than Ds.
Similarly, Fig. 4 clearly describes the community deception
score H ofHs,Ds,a n d Dm algorithms for large-scale social
networks ( net,f aceb ,pow,erd,a n d ast) under ﬁve commu-
nity detection algorithms ( LPA,IMP,MLE ,SGL,a n d LEI)( t o
be consistent with [1], MLE is not applied on data sets pow,
erd,a n d ast,a n d SGL is not applied on net and f aceb ).
Intuitively, in terms of community hiding algorithms for
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 9 ---
712 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
Fig. 4. Evolution of deception score Has a function of the budget on many large-scale networks.
Fig. 5. Running time (in seconds) of Hs,Ds,a n d Dmon small-scale social
networks.
large-scale social networks, Hsperforms better than Dsalgo-
rithm, and Dsperforms better than Dm algorithm. First, for
f aceb and powsocial networks, Hsalgorithm is signiﬁcantly
better than Dsalgorithm except for a few special conditions,
such as “ f aceb +IMP ” (except when budget =10) and
“f aceb +LPA” (except when budget =10). Similarly, HsFig. 6. Running time (in minutes) of Hs,Ds,a n d Dm on large-scale social
networks by using log scale.
is also signiﬁcantly better than Dsand Dm for cases “ erd+
LEI”a n d“ erd+SGL ” in Fig. 4(d1) and (d4). Because the
community hiding method relies on the original communitydivisions and the network structure, our Hs shows a bit
performance reduction compared to the Dsand Dmalgorithms
such as case “ erd+IMP ” in Fig. 4(d2).
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 10 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 713
Fig. 7. Example to illustrate the difference among the three algorithms ( Hs,Ds,a n d Dm). Graph (a) shows the original community partition result of the
netnetwork. (b), (c), and (d) Effect of the three community hiding algorithms on the target community C .
On the whole, our Hsmethod outperforms the two baselines
in the above extensive experiments.
G. Running Time Evaluation
In this section, we evaluate the average running time of the
three community hiding algorithms ( Hs,Ds,a n d Dm)o nt h e
four small-scale social networks ( kar,dol,f ootb ,a n d polb )
and the ﬁve large-scale social networks ( net,f aceb ,pow,
erd,a n d ast), and the runtime includes the time spent to
load the social networks in memory and the time executing
the community hidden operation. Figs. 5 and 6 show the
comparison of the running time of the three community hidingalgorithms on small-scale networks and large-scale networks,
respectively.
Fig. 5 shows a detailed result of the running time, and
we can ﬁnd that all the experiments can be ﬁnished within
one second. In general, the Hsand Dsalgorithms require
almost the same running time, whereas Dm algorithm is
slightly better than Hsand Ds. However, since the Hscore
of the Dmalgorithm is generally too low, the performance of
Dm is greatly reduced. With compre hensive performance and
acceptable algorithm running time, Hsand Dsalgorithms are
better than Dm algorithm.As shown in Fig. 6 (Fig. 6 uses a log scale on y-axis),
the running time required for community hiding algorithmsincreases with the network size. When the network size is
between 1000 and 10 000, the efﬁciency of the three com-
munity hiding algorithms is co mparable. As a special case,
the running time for network ast is much longer than the
other four networks because its number of nodes and links isdozens of times of the other four networks.
H. Case Study
In this section, we give an example to illustrate the differ-
ence between the three commun ity hiding/deception methods.
Taking netnetwork for an example, we select a target com-
munity C ∈¯Ccorresponding to LPA detection algorithm, and
the budget is 4. Fig. 7 intuitively shows the hiding effect ofthree community hiding algorithms on the target community
in social networks and the members are marked in circles.
Fig. 7(a) shows the original division of the net social
network. There are 451 communities in the original graph. The
nodes with the same color come from the same communityand the node set indicated by the red color is the target
community C . Fig. 7(b)–(d) represents the community division
results of the community hiding algorithm Hs,Ds,a n d Dm,
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

--- PAGE 11 ---
714 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS, VOL. 8, NO. 3, JUNE 2021
respectively. Fig. 7 shows that the Hsalgorithm distributes
the members of the target community to other communities as
much as possible and it meets the goal of community spread
under the condition of reachability preservation . The effect of
Dsalgorithm is worse than that of Hsalgorithm, and the target
community members are only dispersed into two communities
after community hiding. For Dm algorithm, the target com-
munity members are dispersed into three communities after
community hiding. According to Fig. 7(d), Dm has no link
perturbation operation within a community when hiding its
members and this is also one of its disadvantages. Besides,
as for community spread ,Hsis better than Dm because most
of the members of the target community are still in the
same community in Fig. 7(d). In summary, compared with
Dsand Dm algorithms, our Hsalgorithm can hide the target
community better.
VI. C ONCLUSION
In this article, we have studied the community security
problem and proposed a new improved algorithm (i.e., Hs)
to hide the members of a sensitive target community into
other nonsensitive communities of a social network. First,we converted the community hiding problem into an opti-
mization problem by designing a concrete instantiation of
gain function. Besides, to evaluate the community hiding
algorithm, we followed the Hscore evaluation method that is
proposed in [1]. Finally, we conducted extensive comparativeexperiments on a set of small- and large-scale social networks
to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. The results
showed that our Hsmethod can achieve the highest Hscore
when compared with two baselines ( Dsand Dm) in most of the
social community divisions. For running time, although Hsand
Dshad similar running time consumptions on the small-scale
networks, the Hsachieved higher efﬁciency than Dson the
large-scale social networks.
Our research only focuses on single target community
deception problem, but privacy p rotection of social network
structure contains three research ideas: 1) single target commu-
nitydeception problem; 2) multiple target communities decep-
tion problem; and 3) complete network structure deception
problem. The ﬁrst problem is the basis for studying other
problems and the research of this article is the foundation
of the privacy protection of social network structure. Ideas2) and 3) are very challenging; it requires more energy and
more comprehensive research in future.
Although target community deception can help users hide
their community privacy, it will cause a bad effect if it is
employed by the attackers or criminals. Therefore, we put
forward the concept of community inference, which is differ-
ent from community detection. Community inference needs
to supplement missing information and identify false linksby using node attributes information. For example, in a user
relationship network, user interests, user location, and user
occupation can be considered as the attributes because the
members of a certain community must have very similar
characteristics in some respect s. The differences in these
characteristics can help us to identify the false members in
a community and to resist the hidden attacker community.Thus, community inference is a valuable research problem
in future.
In summary, community hiding is of great signiﬁcance in
social security issues, and more related research will emergeout in many aspects: 1) designing new and more efﬁcient solu-
tions for the community hiding problem; 2) studying multiple
target community deception problem; 3) inspiring novel and
antihiding community detections to discover the hidden target
community by using node attributes; and 4) real applications
into the complex social system to protect individual and
community privacy.
R
EFERENCES
[1] V . Fionda and G. Pirro, “Community deception or: How to stop fearing
community detection algorithms,” IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. ,
vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 660–673, Apr. 2018.
[2] M. E. J. Newman and M. Girvan, “Finding and evaluating community
structure in networks,” Phys. Rev. E, Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat.
Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 69, no. 2, Feb. 2004, Art. no. 026113
[3] J. Su and T. C. Havens, “Quadratic program-based modularity maximiza-
tion for fuzzy community detection in social networks,” IEEE Trans.
Fuzzy Syst. , vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 1356–1371, Oct. 2015.
[4] V . D. Blondel, J.-L. Guillaume, R. Lambiotte, and E. Lefebvre, “Fast
unfolding of communities in large networks,” J. Stat. Mechanics: Theory
Exp. , vol. 2008, no. 10, Oct. 2008, Art. no. P10008, doi: 10.1088/1742-
5468/2008/10/P10008.
[5] B. J. Frey and D. Dueck, “Clusteri ng by passing messages between data
points,” Science , vol. 315, no. 5814, pp. 972–976, Feb. 2007.
[6] X. Ruan, Y . Sun, B. Wang, and S. Zhang, “The community detection
of complex networks based on Markov matrix spectrum optimiza-
tion,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Control Eng. Commun. Technol. , Dec. 2012,
pp. 608–611.
[7] M. Marija and T. Bosiljka, “Spectral and dynamical properties in classes
of sparse networks with mesoscopic inhomogeneities,” P h y s .R e v .E ,
Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat. Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 80, no. 2, 2009,
Art. no. 026123.
[8] M. Rosvall and C. T. Bergstrom, “Maps of random walks on complex
networks reveal community structure,” Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA ,
vol. 105, no. 4, pp. 1118–1123, Jan. 2008.
[9] J. K. Ochab and Z. Burda, “Maximal entropy random walk in community
detection,” Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics , vol. 216, no. 1, pp. 73–81,
Jan. 2013.
[10] X. J. Zhu and Z. B. Ghahramani, “Learning from labeled and unlabeled
data with label propagation,” Carnegie Mellon Univ., Pittsburgh, PA,
USA, Tech. Rep. CMU-CALD-02-107, 2002.
[11] S. Liu, F. Zhu, H. Liu, and Z. Du, “A core leader based label propagation
algorithm for community detection,” China Commun. , vol. 13, no. 12,
pp. 97–106, Dec. 2016.
[12] X.-K. Zhang, X. Tian, Y .-N. Li, and C. Song, “Label propagation
algorithm based on edge clustering co efﬁcient for community detection
in complex networks,” Int. J. Modern Phys. B , vol. 28, no. 30, Dec. 2014,
Art. no. 1450216.
[13] A. Lancichinetti, S. Fortunato, and J. Kertész, “Detecting the overlapping
and hierarchical community structure in complex networks,” New J.
Phys. , vol. 11, no. 3, Mar. 2009, Art. no. 033015.
[14] J. J. Whang, D. F. Gleich, and I. S. Dhillon, “Overlapping community
detection using seed set expansion,” in Proc. 22nd ACM Int. Conf.
Conf. Inf. Knowl. Manage. CIKM , 2013, pp. 2099–2108, doi: 10.1145/
2505515.2505535.
[15] Z. Jiang et al. , “Trajectory-based community detection,” IEEE Trans.
Circuits Syst. II, Exp. Briefs , vol. 67, no. 6, pp. 1139–1143, Jun. 2020,
doi: 10.1109/TCSII.2019.2933337.
[16] G. Palla, I. Derényi, I. Farkas, and T. Vicsek, “Uncovering the overlap-
ping community structure of complex networks in nature and society,”
Nature , vol. 435, no. 7043, pp. 814–818, Jun. 2005.
[17] Z. Zhang, Y . Gong, K. Wang, and J. Gu, “A survey of over-
lapping community detection based on multi-label propagation,” inProc. 12th IEEE Conf. Ind. Electron. Appl. (ICIEA) , Jun. 2017,
pp. 995–999.
[18] J. J. Whang, D. F. Gleich, and I. S. Dhillon, “Overlapping community
detection using neighborhood- inﬂated seed expansion,” IEEE Trans.
Knowl. Data Eng. , vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 1272–1284, May 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


--- PAGE 12 ---
CHEN et al. : COMMUNITY HIDING BY LINK PERTURBATION IN SOCIAL NETWORKS 715
[19] P. Ronhovde and Z. Nussinov, “Mu ltiresolution community detection
for megascale networks by information-based replica correlations,” Phys.
Rev. E, Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat. Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 80, no. 1,
Jul. 2009, Art. no. 016109
[20] C.-H. Tai, P. S. Yu, D.-N. Yang, and M.-S. Chen, “Structural diversity for
resisting community identiﬁcation in published social networks,” IEEE
Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. , vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 235–252, Jan. 2014.
[21] A. Campan, Y . Alufaisan, T. M. Truta, and T. Richardson, “Preserving
communities in anonymized social networks,” Trans. Data Privacy ,
vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 55–87, 2015
[22] J. Cheng, A. W. C. Fu, and J. Liu, “K-isomorphism: Privacy preserving
network publication against structural attacks,” Proc. ACM SIGMOD Int.
Conf. Manage. Data , 2010, pp. 459–470.
[23] Z. Jiang, J. Ma, and P. S. Yu, “Walk2Privacy: Limiting target link privacy
disclosure against the adversarial link prediction,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Conf. Big Data (Big Data) , Dec. 2019, pp. 1381–1388.
[24] J. Chen et al. , “GA-based Q-attack on community detection,” IEEE
Trans. Comput. Social Syst. , vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 491–503, Jun. 2019, doi:
10.1109/TCSS.2019.2912801.
[25] S. N. Nagaraja, “The impact of unlinkability on adversarial community
detection: Effects and countermeasures,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Privacy
Enhancing Technol. Symp. , 2010, pp. 253–272.
[26] M. Waniek, T. Michalak, T. Ra hwan, and M. Wooldridge, “Hiding
individuals and communities in a social network,” Nature Hum. Behav. ,
vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 139–174, 2016.
[27] U. N. Raghavan, R. Albert, and S. Kumara, “Near linear time algorithm
to detect community structures in large-scale networks,” Phys. Rev.
E, Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat. Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 76, no. 3,
Sep. 2007, Art. no. 036106.
[28] M. Rosvall and C. T. Bergstrom, “Maps of information ﬂow reveal
community structure in complex networks,” Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA ,
vol. 105, no. 4, pp. 1118–1123, 2008, doi: 10.1073/pnas.0706851105.
[29] M. Rosvall, D. Axelsson, and C. T. Bergstrom, “The map equation,”
Eur. Phys. J. Special Topics , vol. 178, no. 13, pp. 13–23, 2009.
[30] V . D. Blondel, J. L. Guillaume, R. Lambiotte, and E. Lefebvre, “Fast
unfolding of community hierarchies in large networks,” J. Stat. Mech.
Theory Exp. Art. no. P10008, doi: 10.1088/1742-5468/2008/10/P10008.
[31] J. Reichardt and S. Bornholdt, “ Statistical mechanics of community
detection,” Phys. Rev. E, Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat. Interdiscip.
Top., vol. 74, no. 1, 2006, Art. no. 016110.
[32] V . A. Traag and J. Bruggeman, “Community detection in networks with
positive and negative links,” P h y s .R e v .E ,S t a t .P h y s .P l a s m a sF l u i d s
Relat. Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 80, no. 3, Sep. 2009, Art. no. 036115.
[33] M. E. J. Newman, “Finding community structure in networks using the
eigenvectors of matrices,” Phys. Rev. E, Stat. Phys. Plasmas Fluids Relat.
Interdiscip. Top. , vol. 74, no. 3, Sep. 2006, Art. no. 036104.
[34] W. W. Zachary, “An information ﬂow model for conﬂict and ﬁssion
in small groups,” J. Anthropolog. Res. , vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 452–473,
Dec. 1977.
[35] M. Girvan and M. E. J. Newman, “Community structure in social
and biological networks,” Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA , vol. 99, no. 12,
pp. 7821–7826, Apr. 2002.
[36] D. Lusseau, K. Schneider, O. J. Boisseau, P. Haase, E. Slooten, and
S. M. Dawson, “The bottlenose dolphin community of doubtful sound
features a large proportion of long-lasting associations,” Behav. Ecology
Sociobiol. , vol. 54, no. 4, pp. 396–405, Sep. 2003.
[37] D. J. Watts and S. H. Strogatz, “Collective dynamics of small world
networks,” Nature , vol. 393, no. 6684, pp. 440–442, 1998.
[38] M. E. J. Newman, “The structure of scientiﬁc collaboration networks,”
Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA , vol. 98, pp. 404–409, Jan. 2001.
Xianyu Chen received the B.S. degree from Anhui
University, Hefei, China, in 2018. He is currentlypursuing the M.S. degree with the School of CyberEngineering, Xidian University, Xi’an, China.
His current research interests include social net-
work analysis and privacy protection.
Zhongyuan Jiang received both B.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing,China, in 2009 and 2013, respectively.
Currently, he is an Associate Professor with the
School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University,Xi’an, China. His research interests include privacypreserving, social computing, urban computing, and
network functions virtualization.
Hui Li received the B.S. degree from the Harbin
Institute of Technology, Harbin, China, in 2005,and the Ph.D. degree from Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore, in 2012.
He is a Professor with the School of Cyber
Engineering, Xidian University, Xi’an, China, and amember of The State Key Laboratory of Integrated
Services Network. His research interests include
social computing, knowledge discovery, graph min-ing, and data privacy in big data.
Jianfeng Ma received the B.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from Shaanxi Normal University, Xi’an, China, andXidian University, Xi’an, China, in 1985 and 1995,
respectively.
He is currently a Professor with the School
of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University, and the
Director of the Key Laboratory of Network and Sys-
tem Security of Shaanxi Province. His research inter-ests include cryptography, wireless network security,data security, and mobile intelligent system security.
Philip S. Yu (Fellow, IEEE) r eceived the Ph.D.
degree from Stanford University, Stanford, CA,
USA.
He is a Distinguished Professor and the Wexler
Chair in Information Tec hnology with the Depart-
ment of Computer Science, University of Illinois
at Chicago (UIC), Chicago, IL, USA. Before join-
ing UIC, he was at the IBM Watson ResearchCenter, Ossining, NY , USA, where he built a
world-renowned data mining and database depart-
ment. His research interests include data mining,
social computing, and privacy protection.
Authorized licensed use limited to: PSG COLLEGE OF TECHNOLOGY. Downloaded on January 29,2026 at 17:14:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


